people are divided about how we should
approach these intense experiences
related to past events called nostalgia
some people just love to immerse
themselves in memories good or bad and
take deep journeys into the realm of the
former other people avoid clinging to
memories because this only makes them
sad so can we see nostalgia as an
enjoyable indulgence in the past or is
it actually a form of suffering and thus
harmful for this video I've explored
several philosophical ideas about a
human engagement in nostalgia
after king nebuchadnezzar ii
successfully besieged Jerusalem in 597
BC the inhabitants of the kingdom of
Judah were deported to Babylonia in the
book of the Psalms we can find an
expression of yearning by the Jewish
people and I quote by the rivers of
Babylon there we sat down yea we wept
when we remembered Zion and quote this
Jewish hymn is an example of the human
ability to grieve intensely about the
past sometimes these grievances are just
temporary and in other cases we see
people in an almost perpetual sadness
grown from a deep longing for what's
already gone for the Jewish people in
exile this didn't mean that the City of
Jerusalem was gone the city is still
here today they mourned their former
presence in Jerusalem so nostalgia is
really about our personal relation to
the environment for those in exile many
memories were created in the city of
Jerusalem things like youth friendships
childbirth good times with family
members etc and therefore the Jewish
people had become attached to the city
in their collective story Jerusalem is
their city but their deportation by the
enemy meant an involuntary abandonment
of the place they were so attached to
together with all the individual as well
as collective stories related to it
Jerusalem had become part of their
identity by leaving it behind they got
separated from themselves of strange
this may sound nevertheless the Jewish
people started a new phase in their
lives when we enter a new phase in our
lives our brains tend to romanticize the
phases before we hear see or smell
something that reminds us of those times
in the past like a song a photo or
perfume and we feel these weird
sensations in our stomach or suddenly
find ourselves in a full-blown emotional
and samba
the weird thing I've noticed about
nostalgia is that we are nostalgic about
times we were nostalgic about earlier
times when I was 20 I was nostalgic
about the times I was 12 when I was 27 I
was nostalgic about
when I was 20 when I was 32 I was
nostalgic about the times I was 27 and
so forth when you look at it it doesn't
make any sense to long for a period of
time and a few years later long for the
period of time in which you were longing
for another period of time so the Jewish
people were in agony when they were
deported but it won't surprise me that
some of them look back on the time of
deportation with nostalgic feelings
afterwards war for example is considered
a terrible thing how come that people
that have experienced the Second World
War can be quite nostalgic about it
sometimes a more contemporary example is
quitting a job when we leave a job we
hate we are full of joy but after a year
or so we sometimes long back for the
pointless conversations at the coffee
machine and the stupid jokes from
certain co-workers our time working
there has become nostalgic and we tend
to think oh now I realize how great that
job actually was I wouldn't mind working
there again but do we base this
statement on facts or do we base it on
emotions evoked by mere memories the
word nostalgia is composed of the Greek
words nostos and algos the words nostos
refers to returning home the word algis
refers to sorrows and griefs according
to Google nostalgia is a sentimental
longing or wistful affection for a
period in the past therefore the
experience of nostalgia is based on
memories the problem with memories is
that they aren't the same as reality
there are very subjective constructions
of events that are behind us fantasies
about the realm outside of the present
moment that are so beautifully engraved
in our minds I think that relationships
are the best example of this because why
do so many people crave back their exes
even though the relationship or marriage
was highly dysfunctional
so when Anna physically abusing alcohol
exposed the eyes of let's say cancer
years later the one left behind tends to
look back on a marriage and things hmm
it's only now I realize
how beautiful our marriage actually was
so we could say that the spouses death
was a blessing for the marriage
appealing to collective nostalgia is an
effective political strategy many people
long for how the country was in the past
and wish that those times would come
back so they fall for the promises of
politicians to revive those old times
however the only thing that we can is
recreate similar circumstances but in no
way we can bring back the past the
Buddha recommended not to dwell in the
past or desire for it I quote the past
should not be followed longing after and
the future neither desired nor urged for
what is past not real anymore is dead
and gone and the future not real now
have yet to come and quote there's
nothing wrong with bringing up past
memories sometimes and in some cases it
is even necessary to reflect in order to
plan for the future but clinging to the
past is just another form of suffering
we either let negative experiences hurt
us over and over again or we desire
moments that simply aren't there anymore
and will not return unless we find a way
to travel back in time I would like to
add that the nature of our memories
makes the past unreliable as well simply
because they are a recreation by the
mind and thus not the real thing
here's a quote by stoic philosopher
Seneca we suffer more often in
imagination than in reality and quote
being caught up in our imagination means
that we are avoiding the present moment
thus nostalgia comes from a
dissatisfaction with the present moment
and doesn't appreciate the period we are
living in but only when it's gone we
remember the beauty of it by clinging to
the things that aren't really there
we don't just escape the present we also
resist the changing nature of our
existence and when we realize that the
moments we desire aren't there anymore
we experience sadness get busy living or
get busy
dying is a famous quote from the movie
The Shawshank Redemption when we refuse
to live in a present
despite the ever-changing nature of the
universe we suffer yet many people spend
great amounts of their lives residing in
fantasies about times that are gone
therefore nostalgia is not only a
clinging to the past but a human
rebellion against impermanence as well
thank you for watching
[Music]
[Applause]
you
[Music]